DIFC Data Protection Law No. 5 of 2020

Part 1 - General

Article 1 - Short Title
This Law may be cited as the DIFC Data Protection Law 2020.

Article 2 - Definitions
In this Law:
"Data Subject" means an identified or identifiable natural person;
"Personal Data" means any information relating to a Data Subject;
"Processing" means any operation performed on Personal Data;
"Data Controller" means a Person who determines the purposes and means of Processing Personal Data;
"Data Processor" means a Person who Processes Personal Data on behalf of a Data Controller;

Article 3 - Scope of Application
This Law applies to:
(a) the Processing of Personal Data by Data Controllers and Data Processors established in the DIFC;
(b) the Processing of Personal Data of Data Subjects in the DIFC by Data Controllers not established in the DIFC.

Part 2 - Principles of Data Protection

Article 5 - Lawfulness, Fairness and Transparency
Personal Data shall be:
(a) processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner;
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes;
(c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary;
(d) accurate and kept up to date;
(e) kept for no longer than necessary;
(f) processed in a secure manner.

Article 6 - Lawful Basis for Processing
Processing is lawful only if at least one of the following applies:
(a) the Data Subject has given consent;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation;
(d) processing is necessary to protect vital interests;
(e) processing is necessary for legitimate interests.

Part 3 - Rights of Data Subjects

Article 12 - Right of Access
A Data Subject has the right to obtain confirmation as to whether Personal Data concerning them is being processed and access to such Personal Data.

Article 13 - Right to Rectification
A Data Subject has the right to obtain rectification of inaccurate Personal Data concerning them.

Article 14 - Right to Erasure
A Data Subject has the right to obtain erasure of Personal Data concerning them where:
(a) the Personal Data is no longer necessary;
(b) the Data Subject withdraws consent;
(c) the Personal Data has been unlawfully processed.

Article 15 - Right to Data Portability
A Data Subject has the right to receive Personal Data in a structured, commonly used format and to transmit that data to another Data Controller.

Part 4 - Obligations of Data Controllers

Article 20 - Data Protection by Design
Data Controllers shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure processing meets the requirements of this Law.

Article 21 - Records of Processing Activities
Data Controllers shall maintain records of all categories of processing activities under their responsibility.

Article 22 - Data Protection Impact Assessment
Data Controllers shall carry out a data protection impact assessment where processing is likely to result in high risk to rights and freedoms.

Part 5 - International Transfers

Article 25 - General Principle
Personal Data may only be transferred to a jurisdiction outside the DIFC if that jurisdiction ensures an adequate level of protection.

Article 26 - Adequacy Decisions
The Commissioner may decide that a jurisdiction provides adequate protection for Personal Data.

Part 6 - Enforcement

Article 30 - Administrative Fines
The Commissioner may impose administrative fines for infringements of this Law up to:
(a) USD 272,000 or 2% of annual worldwide turnover for less serious infringements;
(b) USD 545,000 or 4% of annual worldwide turnover for more serious infringements.

Article 31 - Data Protection Officer
Data Controllers must designate a Data Protection Officer where they engage in large scale systematic monitoring or processing of sensitive Personal Data.

This Law comes into force on 1 July 2020.