DIFC Employment Law No. 2 of 2019

Part 1 - General Provisions

Article 1 - Interpretation
In this Law:
"Employee" means an individual who works for an Employer under an Employment Contract;
"Employer" means a Person who employs one or more Employees under Employment Contracts;
"Employment Contract" means a contract, whether oral or written, express or implied, whereby an Employee agrees to work for an Employer in return for wages or salary;

Article 2 - Application
This Law applies to:
(a) all Employment Contracts for work performed within the DIFC;
(b) all Employees working within the DIFC; and
(c) all Employers who employ Employees to work within the DIFC.

Part 2 - Employment Contracts

Article 5 - Form of Employment Contract
(1) An Employment Contract may be oral or written.
(2) Where an Employment Contract is not in writing, the Employer must provide the Employee with a written statement of the main terms and conditions of employment.

Article 6 - Probationary Period
(1) An Employment Contract may include a probationary period not exceeding six months.
(2) During the probationary period, either party may terminate the contract by giving one week's notice.

Part 3 - Working Time and Leave

Article 12 - Maximum Working Hours
(1) The maximum working hours shall not exceed 48 hours per week.
(2) The maximum daily working hours shall not exceed 9 hours.

Article 15 - Annual Leave
(1) An Employee is entitled to annual leave of not less than 30 calendar days in each calendar year.
(2) Annual leave may be taken in periods agreed between the Employer and Employee.
(3) Payment in lieu of annual leave is prohibited except upon termination of employment.

Article 16 - Sick Leave
(1) An Employee who is unable to work due to illness or injury is entitled to sick leave.
(2) Sick leave with full pay: first 15 days in any calendar year.
(3) Sick leave with half pay: next 30 days in any calendar year.

Part 4 - Termination of Employment

Article 25 - Termination by Notice
(1) Either party may terminate an Employment Contract by giving notice.
(2) The notice period shall be:
    (a) one month if employment has continued for more than 3 months but less than 5 years;
    (b) three months if employment has continued for 5 years or more.

Article 26 - Termination without Notice
An Employer may terminate an Employment Contract without notice if the Employee:
(a) commits a serious breach of the Employment Contract;
(b) is convicted of a criminal offense; or
(c) engages in conduct that brings the Employer into disrepute.

Part 5 - End of Service Benefits

Article 30 - End of Service Gratuity
(1) An Employee whose employment is terminated is entitled to an end of service gratuity.
(2) The gratuity shall be calculated as:
    (a) 21 days' pay for each of the first 5 years of service;
    (b) 30 days' pay for each subsequent year of service.

Part 6 - Dispute Resolution

Article 35 - Employment Disputes
Employment disputes shall be resolved through the DIFC Employment Tribunal in accordance with the procedures set out in the DIFC Employment Tribunal Regulations.

This Law comes into force on 1 January 2020.